Pretty much all of the robots you are interested in for this course,
share the same basic characteristics.
They contain sensors for perceiving the world around them,
software for making high level decisions,
as well as motors and controllers for actuation.
Whereas, provides a powerful communication system,
allowing these different components to communicate with one another.
Here, we'll introduce this communication system by considering a generic robot.
This robot could be a drone,
a mobile base, or even a robotic arm.
While these robots may be composed of very different physical components,
they are all built to perform the same three high-level steps
of perception, decision-making and actuation.
ROS breaks down these three complex steps,
into small Unix processes called Nodes.
Typically, each node on a system,
is responsible for one small and specific portion of the robots overall functionality.
For example, there may be one node for each sensor and actuator in the system,
as well as individual nodes for things like position estimation,
behavior execution, and motor control.
At the center of this collection of nodes,
is the ROS Master,
which acts as a manager of all the nodes.
The ROS Master maintains the registry of all the active nodes on a system.
Each node can use this registry to
discover other nodes and establish lines of communication.
In addition to allowing nodes to locate one another and communicate,
the ROS Master also host what's called the parameter server.
As its name suggests,
the parameter server is typically used to store parameters and configuration values,
that are shared among the running nodes.
For example, a mobile robot sweet radius,
may be used by one node to estimate position and by different node to calculate speed.
Rather than storing the same information in multiple places,
nodes can look up the value as needed.
Nodes can also share data,
with one another by passing messages over what are called topics.
You can think of a topic,
as a pipe between nodes,
through which messages flow.
In order to send a message on a topic,
we say that the node must publish to that topic.
Likewise, to receive a message on a topic,
a node must subscribe to that topic.
Here's an example of the topics, publishers,
and subscribers for the nodes we introduced earlier.
The arrows represent message flow from publishers to subscribers.
Each node may simultaneously publish and subscribe to a wide variety of topics.
This network of nodes connected by topics is
called a publish subscribe or pops up architecture.